+++
headless = true  # This file represents a page section.
active = true  # Activate this widget? true/false
weight = 50  # Order that this section will appear in.

title = "Keynote and Tutorials"

# Choose the user profile to display
# This should be the username of a profile in your `content/authors/` folder.
# See https://sourcethemes.com/academic/docs/get-started/#introduce-yourself
author = "admin"
+++

**Keynote: Lingming Zhang - Towards Better Software Quality in the Era of Large Language Models**

**Abstract:** Large Language Models (LLMs), such as ChatGPT, have shown impressive performance in various downstream tasks spanning diverse fields. In this talk, I will present our recent work on leveraging LLMs for quality assurance of real-world software systems, encompassing software testing, program repair, and program synthesis. More specifically, I will first talk about how LLMs can be directly applied for both generation- and mutation-based fuzz testing studied for decades, while being fully automated, generalizable, and applicable to challenging domains (including quantum computing systems). Next, I will talk about AlphaRepair, which reformulates the automated program repair (APR) problem as an infilling (or cloze) task and demonstrates that LLMs can directly outperform traditional APR techniques studied for over a decade. Lastly, I will also briefly talk about our recent work on LLM-based program synthesis, including Magicoder and EvalPlus.

**Biography:** Lingming Zhang is an Associate Professor in the Department of Computer Science at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign (UIUC). His main research interests lie in Software Engineering and Programming Languages, as well as their synergy with Machine Learning, including Large Language Models (LLMs) for Code and ML System Reliability. To date, his work has found 1000+ new bugs and vulnerabilities in real-world software systems, including deep learning compilers/libraries, C/C++ compilers, Java virtual machines, operating systems, and even quantum computing systems. He is the recipient of ACM SIGSOFT Early Career Researcher Award, NSF CAREER Award, UIUC Dean's Award for Excellence in Research, UIUC List of Teachers Ranked as Outstanding, multiple ACM SIGSOFT Distinguished Paper Awards, and various awards/grants from Alibaba, Amazon, Google, Kwai Inc., Meta, NVIDIA, and Samsung. He currently serves as program co-chair for ASE 2025 and LLM4Code 2024, and associate chair for OOPSLA 2024. For more details, please visit: http://lingming.cs.illinois.edu/

**Tutorial: Addison Crump - SoKotHban: Competitive Adversarial Testing of Sokoban Solverss**

**Abstract:** Sokoban is a puzzle game where the player is tasked with moving crates in a warehouse to designated places. While the task is simple on its surface, the reality is quite different: intricate floor layouts force particular sequences of moves, the limited space in which to move creates difficulties in moving when crates block each other, and as your warehouse increases in size, things only become more complex. Solving these puzzles automatically is a problem that maps nicely into real-world applications, but the evaluation of these strategies often relies on fixed test suites which may be prone to overfit. We propose a King-of-the-Hill (KotH) competition designed to develop and evaluate automated puzzle solvers and generators. With each contestant submitting both a puzzle solver and a puzzle generator, contestants must demonstrate both effective solving strategies to overcome puzzles generated by opponents and generation strategies which exploit limitations of the other competitors' solvers. We expect that this competition will act as an exciting way to push the envelope in automated solving and adversarial testing of solvers, with contestants discovering new ways to target the weaknesses in each other's strategies and optimisations.

**Biography:** Addison Crump is a second-year PhD student at CISPA Helmholtz Center for Information Security under the supervision of Prof. Dr. Thorsten Holz. Though specialising primarily in fuzzing for security testing, Addison's focus prioritises the integration of strategies from other testing domains to make security testing more automated and approachable. Outside of academia, Addison is a maintainer of LibAFL and a member of secret.club.

**Tutorial: Annibale Panichella and Mitchell Olsthoorn - A Hands-on Tutorial for Automatic Test Case Generation and Fuzzing for JavaScript**

**Abstract:** The SynTest-Framework is designed as a user-friendly, flexible, and highly customizable platform that supports fuzzing and automated test case generation. It serves as a base for developing testing tools tailored to various programming languages. Additionally, the framework contains a collection of language-independent search algorithms that are optimized for automatic test case generation and fuzzing. Our primary objective with this framework is to streamline the process for researchers to devise and implement novel methods for automatic test case generation. Additionally, we hope that the framework will make it easier for practitioners to adopt automatic test case generation in their projects.

In this tutorial session, we will show how to use the framework to implement a new automatic test case generation approach. The tutorial will be hands-on and will consist of a series of practical scenarios. These scenarios will be based on the TypeScript programming language. Join us in this fun and interactive tutorial session and equip yourself with the skills to demonstrate your approach to software testing and validation.

**Biography (Annibale Panichella):** Annibale is an associate professor in the Software Engineering Research Group (SERG) at Delft University of Technology (TU Delft) in the Netherlands. He is the head of the Computation Intelligence for Software Engineering Lab (CISELab) within SERG. His research interests include security testing, software testing, search-based software engineering, testing for AI, empirical software engineering. He served and has served as a program committee member of various international conferences (e.g., ICSE, ESEC/FSE, ISSTA, GECCO, ICST) and as a reviewer for various international journals (e.g., TSE, TOSEM, TEVC, EMSE, STVR) in the fields of software engineering and evolutionary computation.

**Biography (Mitchell Olsthoorn):** Mitchell is a postdoctoral researcher in the Software Engineering Research Group (SERG) at the Delft University of Technology. He is also a member of the Computational Intelligence for Software Engineering lab (CISELab) and the Delft Blockchain Lab (DBL). His interests include network security, computational intelligence, and pen-testing. Currently, he is working on combining search-based approaches with Large Language Models (LLMs).
